Updated guide to use NGINX/NGINX Plus as the Ingress Controller in EKS (#159)
nginx/documentation: content/nginx/deployment-guides/amazon-web-services/ingress-controller-elastic-kubernetes-services.md

weight: 400
---

> This guide explains how to use NGINX or F5 NGINX Plus with NGINX Ingress Controller for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Services (EKS).

Reviewer: @madebydna @y82 is the maintainer for NGINX and NGINX Plus, so if he says this is the style, it's correct!

(I made a correction about this - I'll take a note of it for future documentation related to Kubernetes, after further investigation).

> This guide explains how to use NGINX Open Source or F5 NGINX Plus Ingress Controller for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Services (EKS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to use NGINX or F5 NGINX Plus with NGINX Ingress Controller for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Services (EKS).
```

The product is named "NGINX Ingress Controller", prefixed with F5 if it's the first commercial product named on a page. We generally don't specify "Open Source" for the base software, since it's the "default" - the difference is indicated with the "Plus" suffix.

> **Note:** These instructions apply to both the NGINX and NGINX Plus Ingress Controllers for Kubernetes. For ease of reading, the document refers to NGINX Plus only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} These instructions apply to NGINX Ingress Controller with NGINX or NGINX Plus. For ease of reading, the document refers to NGINX Plus only. {{< /note >}}
```

We use Hugo shortcodes wherever possible, and the most common you'll see is this note one.

<span id="prereqs"></span>
## Prerequisites

- [An AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonSimpleDB/latest/DeveloperGuide/AboutAWSAccounts.html).
- A prebuilt image of the NGINX or NGINX Plus Ingress Controller for Kubernetes. 
  - For NGINX Open Source you can use the pre-built image [on DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/nginx/nginx-ingress/). You can also build your own image.

>   - For NGINX Plus, you must build an image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - For NGINX Plus, you must [build an image](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/build-nginx-ingress-controller/).
```

> {{< note >}} If you build the image, do not push it to a public registry.  Run the `make container` command below. {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: Might be worth investigating if that text exists as an include.

> **Note:** If you build the image, do not push it to a public registry.  Run the <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`make` `container`</span> command below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} If you build the image, do not push it to a public registry.  Run the `make container` command below. {{< /note >}}
```

We avoid using inline HTML for formatting: I haven't seen this erroneous usage pop up before. There's a lot of examples of the original author using span over Markdown's inline formatting using backticks.

There's a lot of weird usage of spans to create anchor links too, but it's outside the scope of things you improved.

> {{< note >}}  Never upload your NGINX Plus Ingress Controller mages to a public repository such as Docker Hub. Doing so violates your license agreement.  Run the `make container` command below. {{< /note >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}  Never upload your NGINX Plus Ingress Controller images to a public repository such as Docker Hub. Doing so violates your license agreement.  Run the `make container` command below. {{< /note >}}
```

```shell
make container DOCKERFILE=DockerfileForPlus PREFIX=nginx/nginx-plus-ingress
```

> The `PREFIX` argument specifies the repo name in your private container registry. In this example, we set it to <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">nginx/nginx-plus-ingress</span>. You can later use that name to reference the image instead of its numerical ID.
>    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PREFIX` argument specifies the repo name in your private container registry. In this example, we set it to `nginx/nginx-plus-ingress`. You can later use that name to reference the image instead of its numerical ID.
   
```

This guide covers the `eksctl` command as it is the simplest option. 

1. Follow the instructions in the [eksctl.io documentation](https://eksctl.io/installation/) to install or update the `eksctl` command.

2. Create an Amazon EKS cluster by following the instructions in the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-eksctl.html). Select the <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">Managed nodes – Linux</span> option for each step. Note that the <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`eksctl create cluster`</span> command in the first step can take ten minutes or more.

<span id="amazon-ecr"></span>
## Pushing the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller Image to AWS ECR

This step is only required if you do not plan to use the prebuilt NGINX Open Source image.

1. Use the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/repository-create.html) to create a repository in the Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). In Step 4 of the AWS instructions, name the repository <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">nginx-plus-ic</span> as that is what we use in this guide. 

> 2. Run the following AWS CLI command. It generates an auth token for your AWS ECR registry and pipes it into the <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`docker` `login`</span> command. This lets AWS ECR authenticate and authorize the upcoming Docker requests. For details about the command, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/registry_auth.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following AWS CLI command. It generates an auth token for your AWS ECR registry, then pipes it into the `docker login` command. This lets AWS ECR authenticate and authorize the upcoming Docker requests. For details about the command, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/registry_auth.html).
```

   ```shell
   aws ecr get-login-password --region <aws_region_code> | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<aws_region_code>.amazonaws.com
   ```
   - `<aws_region_code>` is the same region name you specified in Step 2 above.
   - `<aws_account_id>` is your AWS account number. For instructions on retrieving the ID, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/console_account-alias.html).

> 3. Run the following command to apply the tag `edge` to your NGINX Plus Ingress Controller image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following command to apply the tag `edge` to your NGINX Ingress Controller image:
```

Within context, there's no need to mention NGINX Plus again.

   ```shell
   docker tag <registry/image>:edge <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<aws-region-code>.amazonaws.com/<ecr_repo>:edge
   ```

>    - `<registry/image>` is the repo name you set with the `PREFIX` parameter to the <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`make` `container`</span> command (see [Prerequisites](#prereqs)). In this guide it is <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`nginx/nginx-plus-ingress`</span>.
>    - `<ecr_repo>` is the AWS ECR repository you created in Step 1 above. In this guide it is called <span style="white-space: nowrap;">`nginx-plus-ic`</span>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `<registry/image>` is the repo name you set with the `PREFIX` parameter to the `make container` command (see [Prerequisites](#prereqs)). In this guide it is `nginx/nginx-plus-ingress`.
   - `<ecr_repo>` is the AWS ECR repository you created in Step 1 above. In this guide it is called `nginx-plus-ic`.
```

<span id="ingress-controller"></span>
## Installing the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller

Use [our documentation](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installation-with-manifests/) to install the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller in your Amazon EKS cluster.

> Complete the steps up to and including [Confirm NGINX Ingress Controller is running](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installing-nic/installation-with-manifests/#confirm-nginx-ingress-controller-is-running). Next, follow the instructions below to create a Network Load Balancer to route traffic to the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the steps up to and including [Confirm NGINX Ingress Controller is running](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installing-nic/installation-with-manifests/#confirm-nginx-ingress-controller-is-running). Next, follow the instructions below to create a Network Load Balancer to route traffic to NGINX Plus Ingress Controller.
```

> <span id="nlb"></span>
> ## Using a Network Load Balancer in Front of the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Use a Network Load Balancer in front of NGINX Ingress Controller
```

We use sentence case for titles, avoid gerunds and use horizontal lines to delimit sections.

> We assume you've cloned the [kubernetes-ingress](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress) repository in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These steps assume you've cloned the [kubernetes-ingress](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress) repository in the previous step.
```

> We need a Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service to route traffic to the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller. By default, Amazon EKS will create a [Classic Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/introduction.html) for Kubernetes services of type `LoadBalancer`. However, we recommend that you create a [Network Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html) (NLB). It operates at the transport layer and is optimized for high performance and low latency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need a Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service to route traffic to the NGINX Ingress Controller. By default, Amazon EKS will create a [Classic Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/introduction.html) for Kubernetes services of type `LoadBalancer`. However, we recommend that you create a [Network Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html) (NLB). It operates at the transport layer and is optimized for high performance and low latency. 
```

We avoid the use of "we" since it's overly familiar, sticking to an imperative tone for instructions.

We also recommend enabling the PROXY Protocol for both the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller and your NLB target groups. This is used to forward client connection information. If you choose not to enable the PROXY protocol, see the [Appendix](#appendix).

### Configuring a `LoadBalancer` Service to Use NLB

> Apply the manifest <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">deployments/service/loadbalancer-aws-elb.yaml</span> to create a `LoadBalancer` of type NLB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the manifest `deployments/service/loadbalancer-aws-elb.yaml` to create a `LoadBalancer` of type NLB:
```

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f deployments/service/loadbalancer-aws-elb.yaml
   ```

### Enabling the PROXY Protocol

> 1. Add the following keys to the <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml</span> config map file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following keys to the `deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml` config map file:
```

   ```yaml
   proxy-protocol: "True"
   real-ip-header: "proxy_protocol"
   set-real-ip-from: "0.0.0.0/0"
   ```

2. Run the following command to update the config map. This will enable the PROXY protocol for the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml
   ```

3. Enable the PROXY Protocol for the target groups linked to the NLB. Follow the steps in the **Enable proxy protocol** section of the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/edit-target-group-attributes.html#proxy-protocol) to do this.

<span id="testing"></span>
## Testing

> 1. Get the DNS name of the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller with the command below. Find the value of the "LoadBalancer Ingress" in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get the DNS name of NGINX Ingress Controller with the command below. Find the value of the "LoadBalancer Ingress" in the output.
```  

I correct this earlier in the file, but we don't prefix NGINX Ingress Controller with "the" if there's only one instance in the given topic. Within the context of referring to a specific instance, we would add "instance" as a suffix to the name, such as "the NGINX Ingress Controller instance".

   ```shell
   kubectl describe svc nginx-ingress --namespace=nginx-ingress
   ```

2. Resolve the DNS name into an IP address using `nslookup`:

   ```shell
   nslookup <dns-name>
   ```

> 3. Follow the [instructions](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/ingress-resources/complete-example) to deploy our Cafe demo app into the EKS cluster. It will be load balanced by your NGINX Plus Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow the [instructions](https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/ingress-resources/complete-example) to deploy the Cafe demo app into the EKS cluster. It will be load balanced by NGINX Ingress Controller.
```

   * Run the `curl` command listed in the instructions. It will access the demo app and populate the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller logs.

4. Run the following commands to check if the PROXY Protocol is enabled: 
   1. Display the name of the running pod of the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller:

      ```shell
      kubectl get pods -n nginx-ingress
      ```
   2. Display the logs from the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller. Replace `<pod_name>` with the name from the previous step. If the logged IP address matches the one you used to access the demo app, then the PROXY Protocol is enabled.

      ```shell
      kubectl logs <pod_name> -n nginx-ingress
      ```

<span id="appendix"></span>
## Appendix: Disabling the PROXY Protocol

If you want to disable the PROXY Protocol, perform these steps.

1. Disable the PROXY Protocol for the target groups linked to the NLB. Undo the steps in the **Enable proxy protocol** section of the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/edit-target-group-attributes.html#proxy-protocol).

> 2. Remove the following keys from <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml</span> the config map file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Remove the following keys from `deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml` the config map file:
```

   ```yaml
   proxy-protocol: "True"
   real-ip-header: "proxy_protocol"
   set-real-ip-from: "0.0.0.0/0"
   ```

2. Run the following command to update the config map:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f deployments/common/nginx-config.yaml
   ```

> 3. In the <span style="white-space: nowrap; font-weight:bold;">deployments/service/loadbalancer-aws-elb.yaml</span> service file, add the `externalTrafficPolicy` key in the `spec` section. Set it to `Local`, as in this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the `deployments/service/loadbalancer-aws-elb.yaml` service file, add the `externalTrafficPolicy` key in the `spec` section. Set it to `Local`, as in this example:
```
